# Vortex Mass in Superﬂuid Fermi Gases along the BEC–BCS Crossover

This code generates the plots given in the manuscript

> [1] Lucas Levrouw, Hiromitsu Takeuchi and Jacques Tempere, Vortex Mass in Superﬂuid Fermi Gases along the BEC–BCS Crossover,
> Phys. Rev. A 112, 043310, 14 October 2025,
[doi:10.1103/p24p-k59v](https://doi.org/10.1103/p24p-k59v), [arxiv:2505.12590](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2505.12590).

<details>
  <summary>Abstract</summary>
Vortex mass is a key concept in the study of superﬂuid dynamics, referring to the inertia of
vortices in a superﬂuid, which aﬀects their motion and behavior. Despite being an important
quantity, the vortex mass has never been observed experimentally, and remains an unresolved issue
in this ﬁeld. As of now, a large body of research assumes that the vortex mass is a local parameter.
In contrast, we present a calculation that suggests a logarithmic dependence on the system size,
agreeing with some earlier predictions in the context of Bose gases. We analyze the problem using
an eﬀective ﬁeld theory that describes ultracold atomic Fermi gases over the BEC–BCS crossover at
both zero and nonzero temperatures. Our study reveals a strong dependence of the vortex mass on
the scattering length; in particular, the vortex mass grows rapidly when moving towards the BCS
side. Furthermore, we ﬁnd that the system-size dependence of the vortex mass results in values
an order of magnitude larger than those predicted by other models for realistic system sizes. This
implies that the vortex mass could be observable in a wider parameter range than was previously
expected. This is particularly relevant considering recent advances in experimental techniques that
place the observation of vortex mass in superﬂuid Fermi gases within reach.
</details>

> [2] Lucas Levrouw, Hiromitsu Takeuchi and Jacques Tempere, Effect of Population Imbalance on Vortex Mass in Superfluid Fermi Gases,
> https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.22099

## Installation instructions

This code requires Julia, which can be installed following the instructions on https://julialang.org/install/.
This version of the code was tested with Julia 1.12.4.

To use the code, clone this repository and navigate to the main folder. Then run the following commands:
```julia
julia

] activate .
] instantiate
```

This should install the required dependencies. Note that to use the scripts, the `VortexMass` environment should always be activated first.

## How to use this code

To generate the order parameter profiles, run the scripts in ``calculate_profiles/``. The slurm scripts were written for the CalcUA cluster and may have to be adapted if ran on another cluster. 

Afterward, the figures from manuscripts [1] and [2] can be generated by running the scripts in ``PRA2025/`` and ``JLTP2026/``, respectively.
